---
title: Why is Markdown a Thing?
tags: [software-engineering]
---

**Why do `Markdown` and `MDX` exist? Why do we even need them?**

**First**, `Markdown` and `MDX` invert our relationship with markup languages. They put the prose, the content, first and the markup second.

**Second**, they're a format that can be written by a human being. The markup characters they use heve even become shortcut keys to apply styles in rich text editors (e.g., google docs, quip, apple notes) without having to click around.

At first glance, these look like great reasons for `Markdown` to take off.

> Puts your prose, your content, ahead of markup? Great.
> 
> Easier to read for a human? Great.

But... how did we even get here? How did we get to the point where these are even acceptable as good reasons? Where the human being writing content needs to be exposed to and versed in the file format used to save their content!? WTF?!

Surely these reasons for success are actually marks of massive failures somewhere else.

# The Failures

They are marks of failure. They're indicative of massive failures in rich text editing software.

Right?

Why else would we need to land in a place where the author of rich text must write in the raw file format of that rich text?

# How Rich Text Editors Failed

In what ways did rich text editing software fail us?

## Portability

One argument is the portability argument. That there was and is no portable rich text format.

The opposition would argue that we do have portable formats for rich text.
- html
- pdf

I don't think either one of those is actually portable when it comes to the rich text problem.

### HTML Portability

 `html` is an incredibly portable format that can encode rich text. One day everyone on the planet will have a device capable of rendering `html`. The problem with `html`, however, is its expressiveness and flexibility.

The richness and expressiveness of `html` disqualifies it from being portable. The reason is that if I write a rich text editor and use `html` as its file format I now need to support not only rendering but also editing the full range of `html`. Rendering `html` in and of itself is a monumental task. Throw consistent editing into the mix and you're out of luck.

> I do think a subset of `html` could have been defined as a portable format for rich text. E.g., restrict ourselves to `<p>`, `<strong>`, `<em>`, `<h1...6>`, etc. This is essentially what markdown targets.
 
> The argument around having to support all features of `html` could also be levied against `markdown.` There are a variety of flavors of `markdown` out there. Not all markdown editors support all flavors. We'll have to address this concern as well.

# From First Principles
- worse is better
- if you really did create a specific format


## Enter MDX



Although the complexity of HTML makes using it as your wysiwyg format complicated.



But still, are these reasons enough to justify their existence? There's something more to it.

Markdown lays bare its file format to the end user. The user of markdown is almost as well versed in its file format as the programs that are meant to read it.

The fact that a file format has been laid bare to users and taken off is a peculiar turn of events.

How'd this happen? Why'd this happen? Is it only something that exists in the realm of developers?